$4.7
trillion that is how much companies are
projected to spend to get your attention
in 2025 with helpful messages like this
thermal paste is good for AI and sports
gambling makes you cool but marketing is
more than just the ads that get served
before your YouTube video and in the
middle of your YouTube video and at the
end of your YouTube video a considerable
amount of that budget is spent every
year on branding AMD for instance didn't
come up with the name rise by pulling it
out of a hat it was a very clear
statement that they were back and
millions of dollars get spent to nail
the tone of slogans logos sounds and so
much more all with one purpose
convincing you to pull out your wallet
and buy I mean look at Apple's habit of
stringing together superlatives like
Ultra Pro and Max if they're doing it I
promise you it's because a team of
professionals found that these powerful
words maximize the odds that you're
going to think that Apple's just playing
the best which raises a question if
they're all so smart why are all these
names so dumb what is liquid retina xdr
is that better than Ultra retina xdr how
about the ryzen 8640 HS is that better
than the ryzen
7736 U I don't know and what makes the
CPU go from core to core Ultra as it
turns out the confusing nature of this
branding is almost certainly by Design
it's not intended to inform and educate
you but rather it's intended to appeal
to your gut feelings and I've got a gut
feeling that we're going to talk a lot
more about confusing branding after this
confusing this segue confusing sponsor
to our segue sponsor G skill embrace the
Finer Things in life like yachting art
collecting and of course Ram with G
skills Trident Z5 Royal ddr5 featuring a
mirror finish in either gold or silver
and a crystalline light bar learn more
at the link in the description picture
this it's June 2024 and you just got a
new laptop as a gr present and after a
bit of research you find out boy howdy
is it ever a good one it's got a Cutting
Edge 7,000 series processor with ripping
fast Zen 4 cores from AMD except for one
small problem it doesn't
now my goal going into this wasn't to
upset Fanboys by singling out AMD but
their mobile product naming scheme is so
incomprehensible that it requires its
own Wikipedia section making it a prime
example of how misleading product naming
can hurt consumers to illustrate let me
show you how it compares to the current
desktop naming scheme this right here on
desktop is your all important
architecture number this indicates if
the chip is using the latest generation
core technology or something older well
this this goes um here now and then that
first spot that first number well now
that's the release year butuh I don't
know let's put an eight there I guess
which tells you what year it came out as
long as you consult this handy rubric
meaning wait that first number has no
bearing on performance whatsoever
anymore that's right its main purpose
seems to be to allow AMD to create a new
8,000 series or a uh a 9,000 Series CPU
without doing the engineering work to
release a new architecture and we're not
done yet that second number uh that's
the market segment so you've got a ryzen
9 over here and then you can either have
a nine or an eight wait isn't that kind
of redundant cuz we've already got a
segment over here yes yes it is oh wait
I forgot forgot to put year on here I'm
confusing even myself and don't forget
about the fourth number uh that can be
zero this is a differentiate number it
could be zero or if it's better but not
better enough to change any other
numbers it's five not three not just
zero and five oh right and don't forget
about the letter over here which
indicates the power Target or if it's
unlocked I don't know but Intel has
letters to indicate the power Target so
AMD has letters to indicate the power
Target so not only are these letters not
industry standard even within amd's own
lineup you can have instances where two
chips can have the exact same numbers
but markedly different performance
characteristics at least they kept the
meaning of the architecture number the
same though right seven is the newest
nope it's four
now are you confused yet good that's
what they want so you're not going to
think about it too hard and you'll just
trust that huh bigger numers better but
here's a couple examples of how this can
go very very wrong in February Nvidia
launched a refreshed RTX 30506 gig why I
don't know and it doesn't matter what
matters is that if Nvidia had followed
amd's naming scheme that I just laid out
it would have become the RTX
6530 can you IM imagine the outrage if
the community got their hands on the
shiny new 6530 only to find out that
Nvidia arbitrarily doubled the model
number I mean look Nvidia is no saint
they have shamelessly adjusted the
meaning of their model numbers many
times to suit their needs we actually
have a full video coming on their
but this example shows how what
AMD has done here sets a completely new
bar for this nonsense and ironically in
a way that could actually hurt AMD in
the the long term imagine this scenario
oh popsicles they are fresh out of the
7640 U well I guess I'll go with the
higher number
7735 U except for one small problem you
just downgraded to an older processor so
now you're going to go tell all your
friends who bought modern chips from
amd's competitors how bad amd's battery
life and performance sucks way to go AMD
making matters more confusing they've
added a gu investor bait to their
upcoming generation which is fine except
why are the letters in front
now now remember how I said that I
didn't just want to beat up on AMD
that's because Intel is also terrible
their new product naming is so confusing
that they get it wrong on the very page
that explains it on their own website
they did get some stuff right this time
around they finally removed the
Superfluous I they kept the reasonably
well-defined Market segment number and
they moved the word processor to the
front wait a minute what was that last
one that's not right you're saying that
going forward an Intel Core i7 14700 K
processor would have been called Intel
core7 processor 14700 K I mean I know
that rules are made to be broken but
typically Intel we say our adjectives
first like this look at this beautiful
perfectly sized new black super soft
poly blend graphic t-shirt from LTD
store.com if I reversed it it would
sound more like float.com signup content
behindth scenes bonus weekly twice4 if
that sounds backward to you it's because
it is and that's before we even tackle
the suffixes HX means highest
performance all skews unlocked HK means
highest performance all skews unlocked h
means highest performance p means
performance optim this is like buying a
car that has three positions for the gas
pedal okay highest speed unlocked
highest speed and optimized for Speed uh
G indicates integrated Graphics but also
F indicates no integrated Graphics so
what you're getting if there's neither
of them who knows oh and they're getting
rid of the Pentium branding again except
they aren't again oh and finally Ultra
indicates an AI capable chip well that
one was just
obvious now some companies do keep their
naming cleaner for Apple's M series
processors the new number every year
simply indicates hey this is a new
processor with Pro Max and Ultra
suffixes that mean various degrees of
better but with that said apple is also
guilty of some serious naming
can I interest you in the latest 2023
MacBook Pro or would you prefer the old
older crappier 2023 MacBook Pro so what
can we do as consumers well you can
complain to your country's Consumer
Protection Agency but that's not going
to do anything in the short term so uh
you can encourage people in your life to
try and educate themselves before they
make purchases but that can be just as
confusing as not bothering and it takes
time that many people just don't have or
don't want to invest into this and
truthfully I get it I mean it's
literally my job to learn about and
demystify these things but there are
many areas of my life where I just don't
feel like putting in the work either why
do I buy the brand of dishwasher soap
that I do it's not like I've performed
thorough testing in a controlled
environment all I know is that it's
cheap at Costco and it tastes
delicious Jokes Aside the point that I'm
making here is that consumer behavior
isn't going to change so what we really
need is a shift in Attitude for
manufacturers and not just the ones I
called out today guys I'm addressing you
directly now branding doesn't need to be
a bad thing it doesn't need to be
deceptive in a perfect world it will
guide your customer to the right product
in your portfolio resulting in a
positive experience that will Foster
long-term brand loyalty and therefore
future sales if you keep that mentality
in mind you could even engage in
controversial practices like rebadging a
last generation product to fill an
entry-level Gap in your new lineup and
it doesn't have to be such a terrible
thing as long as you do all the
necessary extra steps like making sure
it continues to get driver support for a
long enough period as though it was new
the issue is I just don't see that
happening I see hostility toward the
customer everywhere I look in an effort
to pursue short-sighted quarterly
targets that look good to investors and
I'm just f up with it so fed up that I
don't even know if I want to tell you
about our sponsor Squarespace stop
living in the dark ages of cold calling
and trying to explain your business to
people who are like well just spit it
out what what are you talking about
instead create a free website with
Squarespace and save your precious
saliva their all-in-one platform makes
it easy to get your website up and
running quickly and you don't need to be
a graphic designer to use their
intuitive fluid engine site Builder it
has tons of templates to get you started
and uses drag and drop elements meaning
no coding is required either there asset
Library will help you manage all your
files from one Central Hub and use them
across the whole Squarespace platform
and with Advanced analytic insights you
can see what's working well and What
needs a little touching up so head to
squarespace.com
LTT and get 10% off today if you guys
enjoyed this video you might enjoy a
video on the biggest industry lie that's
going on right now ai or as I like to
call it machine learning with extra
steps